.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH SAFE 1 "perl 5.005, patch 03" "19/Jun/2000" "User Contributed Perl Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
safe \- send email with various MIME\-type attachments
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsafe\fR [\fB--text 0|1|2 ...\fR] [\fB--mime|--uu\fR] [\fB--rcpt user\e@host ... \fR] [\fB--help\fR]
.PP
\fBsafe\fR [\fB\-t n ...\fR] [\fB\-m|\-u\fR] [\fB\-r s ...\fR] [\fB\-?|\-he\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIsafe\fR sends multiple pieces of email as though coming from \fIOutlook Express\fR. One piece of mail will contain all supported MIME\-types, while the others will contain one each of the supported types. They may be sent using either uuencoding or MIME. It is commonly used in a script where it may be repeated multiple times with different combinations of options. 
.Sh "Format"
To facilitate analysis, the \*(L"sender\*(R" of each message is a constructed string which tells what attachments are contained in the message, whether text was included, and which encoding was used.
.PP
For example:
.PP
.Vb 9
\&        oeM1AV12345
\&        0123456~ 
\&        0-1 : Mailer (Outlook Express)
\&        2   : M - MIME encoding; U - UUencoding
\&        3   : "Text" level
\&        3-4 : MIME-type
\&        4   : Total number of attachments
\&        5   : B - BubbleBoy; x - no BubbleBoy
\&        6-10: PID
.Ve
.Sh "Output"
Each iteration of \fBsafe\fR produces an output file containing a list of all of the \*(L"senders\*(R" and the types of attachments in that email.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB--help|\-he|\-?\fR help" 4
Prints out a brief help message.
.Ip "\fB--text|\-t 0|1|2\fR text" 4
Include optional random text (generated by \fIfortune\fR. With an argument of \fB0\fR, no text is included; with \fB2\fR, long text is included, and with \fB1\fR (the default) text of any length is included. If the option is repeated, mail is sent with both options: i.e., \fB\-t 0 \-t 2\fR would send an equal number of emails with no text and with long text.
.Ip "\fB--uu|\-u\fR \- use UUencoding for attachments." 4
.Ip "\fB--rcpt|\-r user@host\fR \- send to this recipient. Multiple \fBrcpt\fR options will send the complete set of emails to all recipients." 4
.SH "ERRORS"
\fBsafe\fR tries five times to establish an SMTP connection with the server. If it fails after five attempts, an \*(L"smtpfail55555\*(R" file (where \*(L"55555\*(R" represents the PID) will be written in the current directory containing the \*(L"sender\*(R" of the mail which could not be sent.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
The modules (\fIoe.pm\fR and \fIsafe.pm\fR used by \fBsafe\fR must be placed in a directory where they can be read; probably the best place is a \fIlib\fR (or other name) directory in your home directory which you include in your \fBPERL5LIB\fR environment variable.
.PP
Besides its own modules \fBsafe\fR needs several other modules to run:
.Ip "\fBNet::\s-1SMTP\s0\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1HTML::\s0FromText\fR" 4
.PP
All of these modules are available from \s-1CPAN\s0.
.PP
Be default \fBmailem\fR connects to port 25 on the smtp server specified in \fIlibnetc.cfg\fR. To override the server on a semi-permanent basis, you can create a \fI.libnetrc\fR file in your home directory containing an entry like:
.PP
.Vb 3
\&        {
\&                smtp_hosts => ['10.11.0.9'],
\&        }
.Ve
where 10.11.0.9 is the \s-1IP\s0 address of your \s-1SMTP\s0 host.
.SH "FILES"
\fIsafe.pm\fR
\fIoe.pm\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBchecksafe\fR
\fBmailem\fR
\fBparse\fR
.SH "NOTES"
The MIME types currently included are:
.Ip "\fB\s-1WAV\s0\fR \- audio/wav: Sound50.wav" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1BMP\s0\fR \- image/bmp: Blue Lace16.bmp" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1AVI\s0\fR \- vidio/avi: clock.avi" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1DIB\s0\fR \- image/bmp: Dib.dib" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1MPEG\s0\fR \- video/mpeg: kelvin.mpeg" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1MIDI\s0\fR \- audio/mid: Mozart's Symphony No. 40.\s-1RMI\s0" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1JPEG\s0\fR \- image/jpeg: Mvpaaa0q.jpg" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1HTML\s0\fR \- text/html: olddefault.htm" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1SCR\s0\fR \- application/octet-stream: black16.scr" 4
.Ip "\fB\s-1QT\s0\fR \- video/quicktime: mimposs.mov " 4
.PP
The key used in the sender string is just the first two letters of the type, \*(L"\s-1AL\s0\*(R" indicates that all attachments are included.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Larry Prall <lprall@nai.com>

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "SAFE 1"
.IX Name "safe - send email with various MIME-type attachments"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Subsection "Format"

.IX Subsection "Output"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB--help|\-he|\-?\fR help"

.IX Item "\fB--text|\-t 0|1|2\fR text"

.IX Item "\fB--uu|\-u\fR \- use UUencoding for attachments."

.IX Item "\fB--rcpt|\-r user@host\fR \- send to this recipient. Multiple \fBrcpt\fR options will send the complete set of emails to all recipients."

.IX Header "ERRORS"

.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"

.IX Item "\fBNet::\s-1SMTP\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1HTML::\s0FromText\fR"

.IX Header "FILES"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "NOTES"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1WAV\s0\fR \- audio/wav: Sound50.wav"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1BMP\s0\fR \- image/bmp: Blue Lace16.bmp"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1AVI\s0\fR \- vidio/avi: clock.avi"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1DIB\s0\fR \- image/bmp: Dib.dib"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1MPEG\s0\fR \- video/mpeg: kelvin.mpeg"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1MIDI\s0\fR \- audio/mid: Mozart's Symphony No. 40.\s-1RMI\s0"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1JPEG\s0\fR \- image/jpeg: Mvpaaa0q.jpg"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1HTML\s0\fR \- text/html: olddefault.htm"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1SCR\s0\fR \- application/octet-stream: black16.scr"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1QT\s0\fR \- video/quicktime: mimposs.mov "

.IX Header "AUTHOR"

