{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red195\green156\blue224;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11720\viewh9500\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa480\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Instructions for the Command Line impaired;\
\
Download the scripts from http://homepage.mac.com/lprall; there will be a stuffit archive with a name something like "chkstuff115".  They should unstuff automatically, but if they don't use Stuffit Expander to get them. (Of course if you got this file from the archive you can skip this step.  Otherwise don't.)\
\
Open a Finder window so that you can see the folder containing the scripts ("chkstuff115" or whatever).\
Open a Terminal window by going to Applications->Utilities and double-clicking the Terminal icon (or however you want to do it).\
In the Terminal window, type "cd " in lower case with the trailing space.  Don't hit return.\
Drag the "chkstuff115" icon to the Terminal window.\
The line will be filled in with the path to the scripts.  Hit return.\
\
You should now be in the Folder with the scripts, and if you want to you can type "ls" in the Teminal and hit return so that you can see the file names.\
Now you're going to run the first script:\
Type 'sudo ./\cb2 chkUGM\cb1 ' and hit return.\
You will be prompted for a password.  Enter your login password and hit return.\
\
(If you get any errors like "Sorry, sudo must be setuid root." or "sudo: /var/run/sudo owned by uid 501, should be owned by root, then follow the procedures in "If 'sudo' doesn't work" and come back here.)\
\
The script will run for awhile and generate a little output to keep you from getting bored.\
When it finishes it will tell you that the changes are in /tmp/fixUGM.sh.\
These are the changes that need to be made to your owners and privileges to put the system back in it's pristine state. If you had set up sendmail (which requires removing group write permission from the root directory; that's correct: one of those cases where a program won't run if the permissions are too lax) or some other program that required tightening permissions you might want to edit the file, but you shouldn't need to do that.  The script will actually fix some files that don't need to be fixed, but that won't hurt anything; it's just putting them back the way they were, and normal system operation changes some of them.\
Now.\
Type 'sudo /tmp/fixUGM.sh' and hit return.\
\
This one shouldn't take long to run, but it might take awhile if you've changed a lot of files.\
If you like, you can look at the files in /tmp that were generated by the \cb2 chkUGM\cb1  script.  Besides the fixUGM.sh script, there will be a file named 'missing_files.txt' which lists all of the files which have been moved since the original install. It's unlikely that any of these will be significant, and there are a lot of files which will fall in this category through normal updates and operation, but you might want to save off the list so you can check it later if you're still having problems to see if perhaps some files have disappeared that shouldn't have.  There is also the possibility of a file named FATAL_ERRORS.txt; it's not likely but it's not impossible.  This file will contain the names of any files that aren't what they should be; i.e., if something was installed as a folder and it's now a file something very bad has happened and there's nothing the script can do to fix it. It doesn't mean that it can't be fixed, though, so if such a file should be there save it off somewhere.\
}